# Game Resources Guide
Emu LiveText requires a resources folder for each supported game to correctly dump and interpret game data and render it correctly. This guide provides an overview of the files required and their purpose.

## Files
#### encodings.tbl
A plaintext document also known as a Thingy Table, explains to Emu LiveText which character each memory value represents. Each line applies to a single character and follows a `hex=character` format. For instance in Pokemon Blue, the line A5=ラ means that if the decimal value for A5 appears in the dump, it represents a ラ character.

#### non_condensed_mode_encodings.tbl
A document of the same format as encodings.tbl. It stores encodings that are unnecessary or look unpleasant if the server is run in condensed display mode (--condensed_output). Most notably text box borders, which tend to not align themselves into the desired shape in condensed mode. Using this file is not strictly required but in most games it will produce a better result.

#### meta.json
A json document intended for necessary meta data. Currently the only information used in this file is the console. Valid inputs: "Gameboy", "Gameboy Color", "NES", "Famicom". These are used to infer the screen width.

#### BizHawk_text_dump.lua
This is a Lua script that utilizes the BizHawk API to dump the section of memory containing the text currently rendered on the emulator's screen. Most games can use a largely identical file to any bundled with Emu LiveText. The only changes that should be necessary for most games will be changing the constants at the top: POSITION_IN_VRAM and TEXT_LENGTH_BYTES. These represent the start position of the memory block, and the length of the memory block, respectively.

#### diacritics.txt
Appears in its own folder, `game_resources/GAME_NAME/diacritics/`. Any file in this directory will be read as a diacritic discription file. Some games encode diacritics with a diacritic byte offset from the character they modify. These files describe the manner in which this is done. The first line indicates the diacritic's position relative to the "base" character as `OFFSET=+/-X`. eg OFFSET=+1 means that the diacritic byte appears one position after the base character while OFFSET=-32 indicates 32 positions before. All subsequent lines are written in the format `DIACRITIC BYTE + BASE BYTE = KANA LITERAL`. eg `F8+45=ボ` if F8 is `゛` and 45 is `ホ`.

Some games such as Legend of Zelda use different encoding schemes depending on the situation. If you include multiple files in the folder, Emu LiveText will attempt each one until one works. Unlike all other Emu LiveText game resources, the filename does not have to be anything in particular. In the bundled game_resource files, they are simply numbered,  but if different encodings are used in particular circumstances, more descriptive names can be used to convey this.

#### artifacts.txt
This is an exceptions file that the Python server consults before sending anything to the web page.  Each line may be a regular expression. Any matches to any regular expressions found in this file will be removed before it is sent. While it is not required for Emu LiveText to function, removing unsightly artifacts provides a better user experience.

#### dump.txt
This is generated by BizHawk_text_dump.lua, and is read by the Python server. You do not need to change this.

#### out.png
A screenshot created by BizHawk_text_dump.lua. It is overwritten each time a dump is created, and is sent to the client by the Python server. You do not need to change this.

